README.md, before:

# LEGO Contamination Sorter – Salesforce + Pybricks + SPIKE Prime

Repo: https://github.com/mikeletulle/LegoWorkshop

This project connects Salesforce Agentforce (or Flows/other automation) to a LEGO SPIKE Prime robot running Pybricks. The robot acts as a **“Contamination Sorter”** that drives to different zones on a board based on a Salesforce decision, and then reports its status back to Salesforce.

---

## 1. Concept – Contamination Sorter

### Table Zones

- **Recycling OK**
- **Contaminated – Route to Landfill**
- **Urgent Field Inspection**

### Scenario

1. An incoming case / inspection report describes what was found in a bin or truck:  
   - “Bag full of batteries”  
   - “Food waste in recycling”  
   - “Normal mixed paper and plastic”  
2. A Salesforce Agent / Flow / Apex decides how serious the contamination is and publishes a **`LEGO_Command__e`** platform event with:
   - **`Command__c`** – `"RECYCLING_OK"`, `"CONTAMINATED"`, or `"INSPECTION"`  
   - **`Case_Id__c`** – Id of the related Case

### Robot Behavior

- **“Recycling OK”** → Drives in a calm, normal speed to the **Recycling OK** zone.
- **“Contaminated”** → Drives fast with “hazard mode” siren to the **Contaminated / Landfill** zone.
- **“Urgent Field Inspection”** → Drives to the **Urgent Inspection** zone with distinctive behavior.

When the robot reaches the target zone, it publishes a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back into Salesforce so the Agent / Flow can log “Target Zone Reached” on the Case.

---

## 2. High-Level Architecture

```text
Salesforce (Agent / Flow / Apex)
        |
        | 1) Publishes LEGO_Command__e
        v
Laptop Bridge (Python, Pub/Sub API)
        - sf_login.py      (OAuth 2.0 login, saves sf_token_info.json)
        - salesforce_pubsub.py (Pub/Sub gRPC client, status publisher)
        - bridge_pybricks.py   (command → robot scenario runner)
        |
        | 2) Runs `pybricksdev run ble contamination_sorter.py`
        v
LEGO SPIKE Prime Hub (Pybricks)
        - contamination_sorter.py (drives to zones, prints STATUS lines)
        |
        | 3) STATUS:XXX lines over BLE console
        |
        v
Laptop Bridge
        |
        | 4) Publishes LEGO_Robot_Status__e
        v
Salesforce
        - Updates Case / Timeline / Screen with “Robot reached target zone”
```

Key points:

- **Pub/Sub gRPC** is used to subscribe to `LEGO_Command__e` from Salesforce.
- The bridge uses **Pybricks + pybricksdev** to send `contamination_sorter.py` over BLE to the hub.
- The Pybricks program prints **`STATUS:`** lines; the bridge parses those and sends a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back with:
  - `Command__c`
  - `Phase__c` (e.g., `"COMPLETED"`)
  - `Message__c` (e.g., `"Target Zone Reached"`)
  - `Board_Position__c` (e.g., `"GREEN_REACHED"`)
  - `Case_Id__c` (from the original command event)

---

## 3. Build the LEGO Robot

We use LEGO’s official drive bases for reliable motor and sensor placement.

### 3.1 Start with Driving Base 1

Model: **Driving Base 1**  
https://spike.legoeducation.com/prime/models/bltc58e302d70cf6530

This gives:

- Dual-motor drive
- Stable chassis
- Correct motor alignment

### 3.2 Add Distance Sensor from “Driving Base 2 – Tools & Accessories”

Model: **Tools and Accessories from Driving Base 2**  
https://spike.legoeducation.com/prime/models/blte7efff9c7c96c9cb

This adds:

- Sensor mounts
- Front extension arm
- More stable structure

### 3.3 Add Sensors

We use:

| Sensor Type       | Port | Notes                                                                 |
|-------------------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Color Sensor**  | B    | Mounted downward on the front to detect board colors (zones).        |
| **Ultrasonic**    | F    | Mounted facing forward to stop before hitting the “box” (obstacle).  |

### 3.4 Board Layout & Sensor Placement

In the repo, you’ll find two reference photos:

- `robot_board.png` – Example of the board layout with **Blue → Green → Red** lines and a box at the far end.  
  ![Board Setup](robot_board.png)

- `sensor_placement.png` – Where the color sensor is mounted, pointing straight down near the front.  
  ![Sensor Placement](sensor_placement.png)

---

## 4. Flash / Install Pybricks Firmware on the Hub

You only need to do this once per hub. After that, you can just use `pybricksdev` to run programs.
Note this has already been done for hubs at workshop

1. Open **Pybricks** in Chrome or Edge:  
   🔗 https://code.pybricks.com

2. Make sure **Bluetooth is ON** on your computer and the SPIKE hub.

3. Click the **Bluetooth icon** in the top bar of the Pybricks site.
   - Select your hub and follow the prompts.
   - The site will offer to install Pybricks firmware if it isn’t already installed.

4. If Bluetooth scan doesn’t find the hub:
   - In Chrome, go to `chrome://flags` and enable  
     **“Experimental Web Platform Features”**, then restart Chrome.
   - If it *still* doesn’t work, use the USB wizard:
     - Turn hub OFF.
     - **Hold down the Bluetooth button** on the hub.
     - While holding, plug in the USB cable to laptop.
     - The hub should go into DFU/bootloader mode (pink → green → blue → off flash sequence).
     - Follow the Pybricks wizard to install firmware.

5. **Windows note (USB driver):**  
   On Windows 11, you may need to let the Pybricks troubleshooting wizard install a **WinUSB** driver for the hub before firmware installation works reliably.

6. Once installed, you should be able to connect from the Pybricks web IDE and run simple test programs.

> For the workshop, hubs will already have Pybricks firmware installed, so participants can skip straight to using `pybricksdev run ble ...`.

---

## 5. Laptop Setup (Mac & Windows)

These steps assume a **clean laptop** with no preinstalled Python tools. They work for both macOS and Windows.

### 5.1 Install Python

1. Go to:  
   🔗 https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/

2. Download **Python 3.12** for your OS. (*64-bit version)

3. **Windows:**  
   - Scroll down to button that says ‘Download Python Install Manager’ and then on next page the button that says Download Installer (MSIX)
   - Run the installer
   - Make sure you say yes to **“Add Python to PATH”** when prompted.
   - Complete installation.

4. **macOS:**  
   - Run the `.pkg` installer and follow the prompts.
   - After install, open **Terminal** and confirm:

   ```bash
   python --version
   python -m pip --version
   ```

5. **Windows BLE note:**  
   If `pybricksdev` later has trouble finding your hub over BLE:
   - Confirm you installed **64-bit** Python (not ARM).
   - Restart Windows after installing Python.
   - Use a supported Bluetooth adapter and follow Pybricks’ own troubleshooting if needed.

### 5.2 Clone the LegoWorkshop Repo

```bash
# Pick any folder you like
cd ~

# Clone the project (or download it and unzip, copy all root extracted files to a folder called 'LegoWorkshop')
git clone https://github.com/mikeletulle/LegoWorkshop.git

cd LegoWorkshop
```

You should now see:

```text
README.md
bridge_main.py
bridge_pybricks.py
color_calibrater.py
contamination_sorter.py
pubsub_api.proto
pubsub_api_pb2.py
pubsub_api_pb2_grpc.py
requirements.txt
robot_board.png
salesforce_pubsub.py
sensor_placement.png
sf_login.py
```

### 5.3 Create and Activate a Virtual Environment
from the folder LegoWorkshop files start a new terminal

**macOS / Linux:**

```bash
cd LegoWorkshop

# Create venv
python -m venv venv

# Activate
source venv/bin/activate
```

**Windows (PowerShell or Command Prompt):**

```bash
cd LegoWorkshop

# Create venv
python -m venv venv

# Activate
venv\Scripts\activate
```

You should see `(venv)` at the beginning of your shell prompt.
If you get an error about running scripts being disabled run:
```bash
Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
```

### 5.4 Install Python Dependencies

With the virtual environment active (`(venv)` visible), run:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install everything needed, including:

- `grpcio`, `grpcio-tools` – Salesforce Pub/Sub gRPC client
- `fastavro` (if present) / Avro support – decoding Pub/Sub event payloads
- `requests` – REST calls back to Salesforce
- `pybricksdev` – sending Pybricks programs to the SPIKE hub over BLE

> If you get `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pybricksdev'`, install it explicitly:

```bash
pip install pybricksdev
```

---

## 6. Salesforce Setup

### 6.1 External Client App (OAuth 2.0)

Create an **External Client App** in Setup:

- **Name:** `Lego Agent Bridge`
- **Callback URL:**  
  `http://localhost:8080/callback`
- **OAuth scopes:**
  - `Manage user data via APIs (api)`
  - `Full access (full)`
  - `Perform requests at any time (refresh_token, offline_access)`
  - `Access the Salesforce API Platform (sfap_api)`

Record the **Client Id** and **Client Secret** – you’ll need them for `sf_config.json`.

### 6.2 Platform Events

#### 6.2.1 Command Event – LEGO_Command__e

Create a Platform Event: **`LEGO_Command__e`**

Fields (at minimum):

- `Command__c` (Text) – values like `"RECYCLING_OK"`, `"CONTAMINATED"`, `"INSPECTION"`
- `Case_Id__c` (Text or Lookup to Case) – the Case Id that triggered the robot run

Your Agent / Flow / Apex logic should publish this event when you want the robot to move.

#### 6.2.2 Status Event – LEGO_Robot_Status__e

Create a Platform Event: **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`**

Suggested fields:

- `Command__c` (Text) – the command that was executed
- `Phase__c` (Text) – e.g. `"COMPLETED"`, `"ERROR"`, `"IN_PROGRESS"`
- `Message__c` (Long Text) – human-readable status like `"Target Zone Reached"`
- `Board_Position__c` (Text) – e.g. `"GREEN_REACHED"`, `"RED_REACHED"`
- `Case_Id__c` (Text or Lookup to Case) – so you can tie the status back to the originating Case

The bridge code calls `publish_robot_status(...)` in `salesforce_pubsub.py` to create these events.

---

## 7. Local Salesforce OAuth Setup

In the **LegoWorkshop** folder, create a file called `sf_config.json`:

```json
{
  "CLIENT_ID": "YOUR_CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_ID",
  "CLIENT_SECRET": "YOUR_CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_SECRET"
}
```

Make sure this file is **in the same folder** as `sf_login.py`.

### 7.1 Run sf_login.py

With your virtual environment active in `LegoWorkshop`:

```bash
python sf_login.py
```

What this does:

1. Opens Salesforce login in your browser.
2. You log in and authorize the app.
3. Salesforce redirects back to `http://localhost:8080/callback`.
4. `sf_login.py` exchanges the code for a token and saves **`sf_token_info.json`**.

You should see a success message like:

> SUCCESS! Saved Salesforce token info to: sf_token_info.json  
> This is what salesforce_pubsub.py will read automatically.

You only need to rerun this when your refresh token is invalid or you change org / client app.

---

## 8. Color Calibration & Detection

### 8.1 Color Calibration (color_calibrater.py)

Because the Color Sensor readings vary with ambient light and sensor height, the project uses a hybrid detection strategy in contamination_sorter.py:

1. Wake up the hub and enable Bluetooth.
2. With the venv active, run:

```bash
pybricksdev run ble color_calibrater.py
```

3. Slowly move the robot over each colored stripe (Green, Yellow, Red) on your board.
4. Watch the printed reflection values and note the typical averages:
   - Example:  
     - Red ~ 7  
     - Green ~ 13  
     - Yellow ~ 16

5. Open `contamination_sorter.py` and adjust:

```python
CAL_RED    = 7
CAL_GREEN  = 13
CAL_YELLOW = 16
ZONE_TOLERANCE = 2.0
```

These constants are used by:

```python
def classify_zone_from_smoothed_ref(avg_ref):
    ...
```

### 8.2 Robot Behavior Script (contamination_sorter.py)

Key features:

If it strongly identifies Color.RED, Color.GREEN, or Color.YELLOW, that is used as the zone.
Multiple consecutive hits are required before accepting.
Fallback: color_sensor.reflection()
A moving average is computed over recent readings.
The average is compared against calibrated constants.
Only treated as a zone if the average is within a small tolerance window.

- Uses **motors on C and D** to drive straight.
- Uses **ColorSensor on B** to detect colored zones.
- Uses **UltrasonicSensor on F** to stop before hitting the box.
- Implements **hybrid detection**:
  - Primary: `color_sensor.color()` (RED, GREEN, YELLOW).
  - Fallback: reflection averages and calibrated thresholds.
- Uses **scenario** variable near the top:

```python
scenario = "RECYCLING_OK"  # or "CONTAMINATED" or "INSPECTION"
```

The bridge (`bridge_pybricks.py`) automatically rewrites this line for each scenario it runs.

It prints `STATUS:` lines such as:

- `STATUS:TARGET_COLOR=GREEN`
- `STATUS:GREEN_REACHED`
- `STATUS:ZONE=RECYCLING_OK`
- `STATUS:DONE`
- `STATUS:WRONG_WAY_FOR_RED`
- `STATUS:ABORT_OBSTACLE distance_mm=...`

The bridge parses those to decide when to send a status event back to Salesforce.

---

## 9. Running the Full Bridge

### 9.1 Make Sure the Hub is Ready

- Pybricks firmware is installed (see earlier steps).
- The hub is **powered on** and in normal mode (not DFU).
- Bluetooth is enabled on the hub (press the Bluetooth button until it shows the Bluetooth icon / blue LED).

### 9.2 Start the Bridge

With the venv active in the `LegoWorkshop` folder:

```bash
python bridge_pybricks.py
```

You should see logs such as:

```text
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Loaded Salesforce auth metadata from sf_token_info.json
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Pub/Sub subscription thread started...
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Fetched Avro schema ... for topic /event/LEGO_Command__e
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Subscribing to /event/LEGO_Command__e on api.pubsub.salesforce.com:7443
```

The script now waits for `LEGO_Command__e` events.

### 9.3 Quick End-to-End Test from Salesforce

1. Open **Developer Console** in Salesforce.
2. Open **Execute Anonymous** (Debug → Open Execute Anonymous Window).
3. Paste and run:

```apex
LEGO_Command__e eventRecord = new LEGO_Command__e(
    Command__c = 'INSPECTION',
    Case_Id__c = '500KZ00000F7XmZYAV' // replace with a real Case Id in your org
);
Database.SaveResult sr = EventBus.publish(eventRecord);
System.debug('SR: ' + sr);
```

4. In your terminal running `bridge_pybricks.py`, you should see:

   - The decoded `LEGO_Command__e` record.
   - `Received LEGO command: INSPECTION (Case: 500...)`
   - `Interpreted as INSPECTION scenario.`
   - Pybricks logs as it drives across the board and hits the yellow zone.
   - One or more `STATUS:` lines like `STATUS:YELLOW_REACHED` and `STATUS:DONE`.

5. After `STATUS` lines are seen, the bridge will publish a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back to Salesforce with:
   - `Command__c = 'INSPECTION'`
   - `Phase__c = 'COMPLETED'`
   - `Message__c = 'Target Zone Reached'`
   - `Board_Position__c = 'YELLOW_REACHED'` (example)
   - `Case_Id__c = '500KZ00000F7XmZYAV'`

You can then:

- Subscribe to `LEGO_Robot_Status__e` in **Event Monitoring**, or  
- Use a **Flow / Trigger** to update the Case with the latest robot status.

---

## 10. Tips & Troubleshooting

- **Hub not found via BLE (pybricksdev):**
  - Make sure the hub is on and Bluetooth is enabled.
  - Make sure no other app (official SPIKE app, Pybricks web IDE) is connected.
  - On Windows, verify you installed 64-bit Python, restart, and try again.
  - Run a quick test:
    ```bash
    pybricksdev run ble my_robot_program.py
    ```

- **No commands arriving in bridge_pybricks logs:**
  - Verify `sf_token_info.json` exists and was created by `sf_login.py` in the same folder.
  - Check Connected App scopes include `sfap_api` and `api`.
  - Confirm the **Topic Name** in `salesforce_pubsub.py` matches your event name (`/event/LEGO_Command__e`).

- **Status events not appearing:**
  - Ensure **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** and its fields exactly match the names used in `publish_robot_status()` (especially `Message__c` and `Case_Id__c`).
  - Check debug logs for warnings like “Failed to publish LEGO_Robot_Status__e”.

---

You now have a complete Salesforce → Pub/Sub → Python → Pybricks → LEGO robot → Salesforce loop.

This setup is intentionally simple and hackathon-friendly: everything is plain Python scripts, a single repo, and standard platform events. Once it’s working, you can easily extend it with richer robot behaviors, more complex Agent prompts, or additional telemetry.

Commit message:

changed secrets so mysf_config.json contains them and sf_config.json becomes template file to be copied

README.md, after:

# LEGO Contamination Sorter – Salesforce + Pybricks + SPIKE Prime

Repo: https://github.com/mikeletulle/LegoWorkshop

This project connects Salesforce Agentforce (or Flows/other automation) to a LEGO SPIKE Prime robot running Pybricks. In this example the robot acts as a **“Contamination Sorter”** that drives to different colored zones on a board based on a Agentforce decision (how it classifies a case based on it's description), and then reports its status back to Salesforce. It uses the Salesforce Pub/Sub API to listen for the platform events as well as publish them back. This was first used for a hands on workshop in which the participants created a prompt template and flow that let agentforce update a classification field on a case which in turn creates a platform event ( 'LEGO_Command__e'  with a 'Command__c' ) field listened for by this python bridge code. After getting this example use case working the participants were encouraged to come up with new ideas and new commands and use Agentforce Vibes to tweak the Pybricks code to make the robot have different behaviors. 

**"Developer Notes:"** Because the color sensor doesn't always work well in low light situations it contains somewhat complex logic that let's it use averages of samples of the reflection values of the sensor as a fallback to the actual color values it detects (or doesn't detect). There is a script one can use to calibrate the sensor to your environment's specific lighting conditions as described below. 

Because one cannot pass arguments to the pybricks scripts running on the hub, the main script (bridge_pybricks.py) detects which scenario is needed by the robot and creates a runtime script for each of the three scenarios and loads the appropriate one onto the hub as needed. 

---

## 1. Concept – Contamination Sorter

### Table Zones

- **Recycling OK**
- **Contaminated – Route to Landfill**
- **Urgent Field Inspection**

### Scenario

1. An incoming case / inspection report describes what was found in a bin or truck:  
   - “Bag full of batteries”  
   - “Food waste in recycling”  
   - “Normal mixed paper and plastic”  
2. A Salesforce Agent / Flow / Apex decides how serious the contamination is and publishes a **`LEGO_Command__e`** platform event with:
   - **`Command__c`** – `"RECYCLING_OK"`, `"CONTAMINATED"`, or `"INSPECTION"`  
   - **`Case_Id__c`** – Id of the related Case

### Robot Behavior

- **“Recycling OK”** → Drives in a calm, normal speed to the **Recycling OK** zone.
- **“Contaminated”** → Drives fast with “hazard mode” siren to the **Contaminated / Landfill** zone.
- **“Field Inspection”** → Drives to the **Inspection** zone.

When the robot reaches the target zone, it publishes a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back into Salesforce so the Agent / Flow can log “Target Zone Reached” on the Case.

---

## 2. High-Level Architecture

```text
Salesforce (Agent / Flow / Apex)
        |
        | 1) Publishes LEGO_Command__e
        v
Laptop Bridge (Python, Pub/Sub API)
        - sf_login.py      (OAuth 2.0 login, saves sf_token_info.json)
        - salesforce_pubsub.py (Pub/Sub gRPC client, status publisher)
        - bridge_pybricks.py   (command → robot scenario runner)
        |
        | 2) Runs `pybricksdev run ble contamination_sorter.py`
        v
LEGO SPIKE Prime Hub (Pybricks)
        - contamination_sorter.py (drives to zones, prints STATUS lines)
        |
        | 3) STATUS:XXX lines over BLE console
        |
        v
Laptop Bridge
        |
        | 4) Publishes LEGO_Robot_Status__e
        v
Salesforce
        - Updates Case / Timeline / Screen with “Robot reached target zone”
```

Key points:

- **Pub/Sub gRPC** is used to subscribe to `LEGO_Command__e` from Salesforce.
- The bridge uses **Pybricks + pybricksdev** to send `contamination_sorter.py` over BLE to the hub.
- The Pybricks program prints **`STATUS:`** lines; the bridge parses those and sends a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back with:
  - `Command__c`
  - `Phase__c` (e.g., `"COMPLETED"`)
  - `Message__c` (e.g., `"Target Zone Reached"`)
  - `Board_Position__c` (e.g., `"GREEN_REACHED"`)
  - `Case_Id__c` (from the original command event)

---

## 3. Build the LEGO Robot

We use LEGO’s official drive bases for reliable motor and sensor placement.

### 3.1 Start with Driving Base 1

Model: **Driving Base 1**  
https://spike.legoeducation.com/prime/models/bltc58e302d70cf6530

This gives:

- Dual-motor drive
- Stable chassis
- Correct motor alignment

### 3.2 Add Distance Sensor from “Driving Base 2 – Tools & Accessories”

Model: **Tools and Accessories from Driving Base 2**  
https://spike.legoeducation.com/prime/models/blte7efff9c7c96c9cb

This adds:

- Sensor mounts
- Front extension arm
- More stable structure

### 3.3 Add Sensors

We use:

| Sensor Type       | Port | Notes                                                                 |
|-------------------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Color Sensor**  | B    | Mounted downward on the front to detect board colors (zones).        |
| **Ultrasonic**    | F    | Mounted facing forward to stop before hitting the “box” (obstacle).  |

### 3.4 Board Layout & Sensor Placement

In the repo, you’ll find two reference photos:

- `robot_board.png` – Example of the board layout with **Blue → Green → Red** lines and a box at the far end.  
  ![Board Setup](robot_board.png)

- `sensor_placement.png` – Where the color sensor is mounted, pointing straight down near the front.  
  ![Sensor Placement](sensor_placement.png)

---

## 4. Flash / Install Pybricks Firmware on the Hub

You only need to do this once per hub. After that, you can just use `pybricksdev` to run programs.
Note this has already been done for hubs at workshop

1. Open **Pybricks** in Chrome or Edge:  
   🔗 https://code.pybricks.com

2. Make sure **Bluetooth is ON** on your computer and the SPIKE hub.

3. Click the **Bluetooth icon** in the top bar of the Pybricks site.
   - Select your hub and follow the prompts.
   - The site will offer to install Pybricks firmware if it isn’t already installed.

4. If Bluetooth scan doesn’t find the hub:
   - In Chrome, go to `chrome://flags` and enable  
     **“Experimental Web Platform Features”**, then restart Chrome.
   - If it *still* doesn’t work, use the USB wizard:
     - Turn hub OFF.
     - **Hold down the Bluetooth button** on the hub.
     - While holding, plug in the USB cable to laptop.
     - The hub should go into DFU/bootloader mode (pink → green → blue → off flash sequence).
     - Follow the Pybricks wizard to install firmware.

5. **Windows note (USB driver):**  
   On Windows 11, you may need to follow the Pybricks troubleshooting wizard to install a **WinUSB** driver for the hub before firmware installation works reliably.

6. Once installed, you should be able to connect from the Pybricks web IDE and run simple test programs.

> For the workshop, hubs will already have Pybricks firmware installed, so participants can skip straight to using `pybricksdev run ble ...`.

---

## 5. Laptop Setup (Mac & Windows)

These steps assume a **clean laptop** with no preinstalled Python tools. They work for both macOS and Windows.

### 5.1 Install Python

1. Go to:  
   🔗 https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/

2. Download **Python 3.12** for your OS. (*64-bit version)

3. **Windows:**  
   - Scroll down to button that says ‘Download Python Install Manager’ and then on next page the button that says Download Installer (MSIX)
   - Run the installer
   - Make sure you say yes to **“Add Python to PATH”** when prompted.
   - Complete installation.

4. **macOS:**  
   - Run the `.pkg` installer and follow the prompts.
   - After install, open **Terminal** and confirm:

   ```bash
   python --version
   python -m pip --version
   ```

5. **Windows BLE note:**  
   If `pybricksdev` later has trouble finding your hub over BLE:
   - Confirm you installed **64-bit** Python (not ARM).
   - Restart Windows after installing Python.
   - Use a supported Bluetooth adapter and follow Pybricks’ own troubleshooting if needed.

### 5.2 Clone the LegoWorkshop Repo

```bash
# Pick any folder you like
cd ~

# Clone the project (or download it and unzip, copy all root extracted files to a folder called 'LegoWorkshop')
git clone https://github.com/mikeletulle/LegoWorkshop.git

cd LegoWorkshop
```

You should now see:

```text
README.md
bridge_main.py
bridge_pybricks.py
color_calibrater.py
contamination_sorter.py
pubsub_api.proto
pubsub_api_pb2.py
pubsub_api_pb2_grpc.py
requirements.txt
robot_board.png
salesforce_pubsub.py
sensor_placement.png
sf_login.py
```

### 5.3 Create and Activate a Virtual Environment
from the folder LegoWorkshop files start a new terminal

**macOS / Linux:**

```bash
cd LegoWorkshop

# Create venv
python -m venv venv

# Activate
source venv/bin/activate
```

**Windows (PowerShell or Command Prompt):**

```bash
cd LegoWorkshop

# Create venv
python -m venv venv

# Activate on Mac/Linux
source venv/bin/activate
# Activate on Windows PowerShell
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
# Activate on DOS
venv\Scripts\activate
```

You should see `(venv)` at the beginning of your shell prompt.
If you get an error about running scripts being disabled run:
```bash
Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
```

### 5.4 Install Python Dependencies

With the virtual environment active (`(venv)` visible), run:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install everything needed, including:

- `grpcio`, `grpcio-tools` – Salesforce Pub/Sub gRPC client
- `fastavro` (if present) / Avro support – decoding Pub/Sub event payloads
- `requests` – REST calls back to Salesforce
- `pybricksdev` – sending Pybricks programs to the SPIKE hub over BLE

> If you get `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pybricksdev'`, install it explicitly:

```bash
pip install pybricksdev
```

---

## 6. Salesforce Setup

### 6.1 External Client App (OAuth 2.0)

Create an **External Client App** in Setup:

- **Name:** `Lego Agent Bridge`
- **Callback URL:**  
  `http://localhost:8080/callback`
- **OAuth scopes:**
  - `Manage user data via APIs (api)`
  - `Full access (full)`
  - `Perform requests at any time (refresh_token, offline_access)`
  - `Access the Salesforce API Platform (sfap_api)`

Record the **Client Id** and **Client Secret** – you’ll need them for `sf_config.json`.

### 6.2 Platform Events

#### 6.2.1 Command Event – LEGO_Command__e

Create a Platform Event: **`LEGO_Command__e`**

Fields (at minimum):

- `Command__c` (Text) – values like `"RECYCLING_OK"`, `"CONTAMINATED"`, `"INSPECTION"`
- `Case_Id__c` (Text or Lookup to Case) – the Case Id that triggered the robot run

Your Agent / Flow / Apex logic should publish this event when you want the robot to move.

#### 6.2.2 Status Event – LEGO_Robot_Status__e

Create a Platform Event: **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`**

Suggested fields:

- `Command__c` (Text) – the command that was executed
- `Phase__c` (Text) – e.g. `"COMPLETED"`, `"ERROR"`, `"IN_PROGRESS"`
- `Message__c` (Long Text) – human-readable status like `"Target Zone Reached"`
- `Board_Position__c` (Text) – e.g. `"GREEN_REACHED"`, `"RED_REACHED"`
- `Case_Id__c` (Text or Lookup to Case) – so you can tie the status back to the originating Case

The bridge code calls `publish_robot_status(...)` in `salesforce_pubsub.py` to create these events.

---

## 7. Local Salesforce OAuth Setup

In the **LegoWorkshop** folder, copy the file called `sf_config.json` to `mysf_config.json` and repace the 'XXXXXXXX's to your secrets:

```json
{
  "CLIENT_ID": "YOUR_CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_ID",
  "CLIENT_SECRET": "YOUR_CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_SECRET"
}
```

Make sure this file is **in the same folder** as `sf_login.py`.

### 7.1 Run sf_login.py

With your virtual environment active in `LegoWorkshop` (as shown above):

```bash
python sf_login.py
```

What this does:

1. Opens Salesforce login in your browser.
2. You log in and authorize the app.
3. Salesforce redirects back to `http://localhost:8080/callback`.
4. `sf_login.py` exchanges the code for a token and saves **`sf_token_info.json`**.

You should see a success message like:

> SUCCESS! Saved Salesforce token info to: sf_token_info.json  
> This is what salesforce_pubsub.py will read automatically.

You only need to rerun this when your refresh token is invalid or you change org / client app.

---

## 8. Color Calibration & Detection

### 8.1 Color Calibration (color_calibrater.py)

Because the Color Sensor readings vary with ambient light and sensor height, the project uses a hybrid detection strategy in contamination_sorter.py:

1. Wake up the hub and enable Bluetooth.
2. With the venv active, run:

```bash
pybricksdev run ble color_calibrater.py
```

3. Slowly move the robot over each colored stripe (Green, Yellow, Red) on your board.
4. Watch the printed reflection values and note the typical averages:
   - Example:  
     - Red ~ 7  
     - Green ~ 13  
     - Yellow ~ 16

5. Open `contamination_sorter.py` and adjust:

```python
CAL_RED    = 7
CAL_GREEN  = 13
CAL_YELLOW = 16
ZONE_TOLERANCE = 2.0
```

These constants are used by:

```python
def classify_zone_from_smoothed_ref(avg_ref):
    ...
```

### 8.2 Robot Behavior Script (contamination_sorter.py)

Key features:

If it strongly identifies Color.RED, Color.GREEN, or Color.YELLOW, that is used as the zone.
Multiple consecutive hits are required before accepting.
Fallback: color_sensor.reflection()
A moving average is computed over recent readings.
The average is compared against calibrated constants.
Only treated as a zone if the average is within a small tolerance window.

- Uses **motors on C and D** to drive straight.
- Uses **ColorSensor on B** to detect colored zones.
- Uses **UltrasonicSensor on F** to stop before hitting the box.
- Implements **hybrid detection**:
  - Primary: `color_sensor.color()` (RED, GREEN, YELLOW).
  - Fallback: reflection averages and calibrated thresholds.
- Uses **scenario** variable near the top:

```python
scenario = "RECYCLING_OK"  # or "CONTAMINATED" or "INSPECTION"
```

The bridge (`bridge_pybricks.py`) automatically rewrites this line for each scenario it runs.

It prints `STATUS:` lines such as:

- `STATUS:TARGET_COLOR=GREEN`
- `STATUS:GREEN_REACHED`
- `STATUS:ZONE=RECYCLING_OK`
- `STATUS:DONE`
- `STATUS:WRONG_WAY_FOR_RED`
- `STATUS:ABORT_OBSTACLE distance_mm=...`

The bridge parses those to decide when to send a status event back to Salesforce.

---

## 9. Running the Full Bridge

### 9.1 Make Sure the Hub is Ready

- Pybricks firmware is installed (see earlier steps).
- The hub is **powered on** and in normal mode (not DFU).
- Bluetooth is enabled on the hub (press the Bluetooth button until it shows the Bluetooth icon / blue LED).

### 9.2 Start the Bridge

With the venv active in the `LegoWorkshop` folder:

```bash
python bridge_pybricks.py
```

You should see logs such as:

```text
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Loaded Salesforce auth metadata from sf_token_info.json
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Pub/Sub subscription thread started...
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Fetched Avro schema ... for topic /event/LEGO_Command__e
[INFO] salesforce_pubsub: Subscribing to /event/LEGO_Command__e on api.pubsub.salesforce.com:7443
```

The script now waits for `LEGO_Command__e` events.

### 9.3 Quick End-to-End Test from Salesforce

1. Open **Developer Console** in Salesforce.
2. Open **Execute Anonymous** (Debug → Open Execute Anonymous Window).
3. Paste and run:

```apex
LEGO_Command__e eventRecord = new LEGO_Command__e(
    Command__c = 'INSPECTION',
    Case_Id__c = '500KZ00000F7XmZYAV' // replace with a real Case Id in your org
);
Database.SaveResult sr = EventBus.publish(eventRecord);
System.debug('SR: ' + sr);
```

4. In your terminal running `bridge_pybricks.py`, you should see:

   - The decoded `LEGO_Command__e` record.
   - `Received LEGO command: INSPECTION (Case: 500...)`
   - `Interpreted as INSPECTION scenario.`
   - Pybricks logs as it drives across the board and hits the yellow zone.
   - One or more `STATUS:` lines like `STATUS:YELLOW_REACHED` and `STATUS:DONE`.

5. After `STATUS` lines are seen, the bridge will publish a **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** event back to Salesforce with:
   - `Command__c = 'INSPECTION'`
   - `Phase__c = 'COMPLETED'`
   - `Message__c = 'Target Zone Reached'`
   - `Board_Position__c = 'YELLOW_REACHED'` (example)
   - `Case_Id__c = '500KZ00000F7XmZYAV'`

You can then:

- Subscribe to `LEGO_Robot_Status__e` in **Event Monitoring**, or  
- Use a **Flow / Trigger** to update the Case with the latest robot status.

---

## 10. Tips & Troubleshooting

- **Hub not found via BLE (pybricksdev):**
  - Make sure the hub is on and Bluetooth is enabled.
  - Make sure no other app (official SPIKE app, Pybricks web IDE) is connected.
  - On Windows, verify you installed 64-bit Python, restart, and try again.
  - Run a quick test:
    ```bash
    pybricksdev run ble my_robot_program.py
    ```

- **No commands arriving in bridge_pybricks logs:**
  - Verify `sf_token_info.json` exists and was created by `sf_login.py` in the same folder.
  - Check Connected App scopes include `sfap_api` and `api`.
  - Confirm the **Topic Name** in `salesforce_pubsub.py` matches your event name (`/event/LEGO_Command__e`).

- **Status events not appearing:**
  - Ensure **`LEGO_Robot_Status__e`** and its fields exactly match the names used in `publish_robot_status()` (especially `Message__c` and `Case_Id__c`).
  - Check debug logs for warnings like “Failed to publish LEGO_Robot_Status__e”.

---

You now have a complete Salesforce → Pub/Sub → Python → Pybricks → LEGO robot → Salesforce loop.

This setup is intentionally simple and hackathon-friendly: everything is plain Python scripts, a single repo, and standard platform events. Once it’s working, you can easily extend it with richer robot behaviors, more complex Agent prompts, or additional telemetry.
